Started from default config, these are what is removed from my config.
The basis for the config is to disable entire sections
And primarily remove excess device drivers.
The dist-kernel has tons of stuff built as a module, which is great for compatibility but terrible for compilation time.
This config pares the modules down from over 4000 to under 700.
This reduced overall compile time from 20 minutes to 3 minutes.
So
The system is AMD Ryzen based so all Intel tech is disabled.
The network card section is disabled except for my two drivers, IGB/BE2NET.
WLAN/WWAN/Bluetooth all disabled.
Anything with a radio pretty much disabled.
The IPV6 is turned into a module, as much as possible disabled,
Meant to decrease surface area with ipv6.disable=1 bootparam but still leave enough enabled to not break anything.
The DRM video section has all drivers disabled, (choose).
SCSI is mostly disabled, except for the generic subsystem.
PATA/SATA also minimalized to generics, just enough to boot AMD and Qemu
NVME needed for boot also
SND mostly disabled, (choose)
INPUT mostly disabled (Ps2 keyboard/mouse)
USB_HID mostly disabled except for generic drivers. Full USB still works. Keep USB_UAS (UASP)
Technology found in laptops or tablets, disabled. Especially obvious wrong brand name.
I2C disabled (caveat*)
USB special device drivers disabled
Misc devices drivers disabled
Embedded devices disabled (RTC,EEPROM,GPIO,SPI,Power supply ICs, Batteries, VRM Regulators,etc)
Media Support disabled (video capture)
IPMI disabled.
TPMs other than AMD disabled.
Virtualization _drivers_ disabled for Xen/VMWare/Virtualbox, except for Virtio(Qemu)
Platform and SoC drivers for hardware we don't have, disabled.
kernel is not designed to be ideal for a VM, I run it on bare metal, but I like to test in a VM.
Filesystems more than half removed, kept ones I want.
NLS languages disabled except for barebones ascii/english
please note these are aggressive settings and more documentation will follow, but this works for me.
@genr8eofl 10-30-22 CC-BY-SA-4.0 w/attribution) 
